# todo-list-service

## About

This is a GO implemetation of distributed to-do list service.

## Getting started
In order to install this package run:
```
go install github.com/gilishamo/todo-list-service@latest
```
Then to run the server, run:
```
todo-list-service service-ip+port [instances-services-ip+port]
```

Navigate to:
```
http://{address}/swagger/index.html#/
```
Here you will see the actions you can perform:
1. Createing a new task.
2. Removing a task.
3. Listing all tasks.

## Documentaion

Implementation:

`Listing all tasks` will return a map, each pair consist of (id, task).

When `createing a task`, a uuid is generated and the task is inserted to the map holding all tasks. In addition the service that recived the request send an inner request to the other service/services with the data of the new task to add.

Similarly, when `removeing a task`, the task is removed from the map, and the service that recived the request send an inner request to the other service/services with the id of the task to remove.

Notes:
* Data structure to hold all tasks - Each service instance holds a map, each map item consists of (key, value) = (id, task data).
* Add/Remove - When a user send a request to add/remove a task, the service uses an inner request in order to inform the other service instances about the change.
I chose to use a map in order to implement add/remove of a task in O(1) time in average. 
* Task id - because the title/description are not unique, I decided to generate a uuid for each task created,
* Removeing a task - currently, in order to remove a task, the user first need to list all tasks, then extract the id of the relevant task, and finally create a request to remove the task with the relvant id. I could have made this proccess a 'black box' if i created the UI myself. For example, I could create a page that listed all tasks, each html element representing a task would hold the id of the task and a 'delete' button. When clicking 'delete' the ui would create a request to the server with the correct id.
* Scalability - each service instance must have the addresses of other service instances at initializtion. I would have liked to add an option to add services as needed without having to re-start all the services. This would also mean I would need to add a request to inform the new service of the current state of the tasks list. 

### Frontend

Implemented using package `swag`, all the documents under the directory `docs` were generated by this package.


